README.md, before:

# 🌸 Serenote – Your Digital Journaling Companion

A compassionate digital journaling app that helps you **track your thoughts, emotions, and personal growth** through beautiful, gamified experiences.

---

## ✨ Features

### 📖 Intelligent Journaling
- **Text Entries** – Write and customize your journals with themes, fonts, and colors  
- **Voice Notes** – Record audio thoughts with built-in waveform visualization  
- **Time Capsules** – Lock entries to be opened on future dates  
- **Mood Tracking** – Associate emotions with each entry for deeper self-reflection  

### 🌱 Mood Garden Gamification
- **Emotional Growth** – Watch flowers bloom based on your mood patterns  
- **Seasonal Themes** – Experience spring, summer, autumn, and winter transformations  
- **Achievements** – Unlock badges for journaling milestones and consistency  
- **Watering Mechanics** – Keep your garden thriving through daily care  

### 🧘 Compassionate AI Support
- **Emotion Recognition** – AI analyzes entries to offer tailored support  
- **Guided Prompts** – Personalized journaling suggestions based on your mood  
- **Breathing Exercises** – Interactive breathing guides for emotional regulation  
- **Music Recommendations** – Curated playlists matching your feelings  
- **Comforting Quotes** – Inspirational and uplifting messages  

### 📊 Analytics & Insights
- **Mood Dashboard** – Visualize emotional trends over time  
- **Journaling Streaks** – Track your writing consistency  
- **Progress Tracking** – Reflect on your personal growth journey  
- **Export Functionality** – Generate beautiful PDF exports of your journal  

### ✅ Todo Management
- **Task Organization** – Create, edit, and manage daily tasks  
- **Priority Levels** – Categorize tasks by urgency  
- **Due Dates** – Set reminders for upcoming or overdue tasks  
- **Category System** – Organize by work, personal, health, and more  

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python **3.8+**
- **PostgreSQL** (optional; SQLite fallback available)
- **OpenAI API Key** (for AI features)

### Installation

```bash
# 1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/serenote.git
cd serenote

# 2️⃣ Create and activate a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate        # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# 3️⃣ Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# 4️⃣ Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# 5️⃣ Initialize the database
python setup_db.py

# 6️⃣ Run the application
python run.py

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and additional features
Updated the README to enhance descriptions and add new sections.

README.md, after:

# 🌸 Serenote – Your Digital Journaling Companion

Serenote is a compassionate digital journaling website that helps you reflect on your thoughts, emotions, and personal growth. It combines journaling, mood tracking, and gamified mindfulness through a beautiful Mood Garden. With customizable themes and insights, Serenote makes self-care simple, engaging, and emotionally rewarding.

---

## ✨ Features

### 📖 Intelligent Journaling
- **Text Entries** – Write and customize your journals with themes, fonts, and colors  
- **Voice Notes** – Record audio thoughts with built-in waveform visualization  
- **Time Capsules** – Lock entries to be opened on future dates  
- **Mood Tracking** – Associate emotions with each entry for deeper self-reflection  

### 🌱 Mood Garden Gamification
- **Emotional Growth** – Watch flowers bloom based on your mood patterns  
- **Seasonal Themes** – Experience spring, summer, autumn, and winter transformations  
- **Achievements** – Unlock badges for journaling milestones and consistency  
- **Watering Mechanics** – Keep your garden thriving through daily care  

### 🧘 Compassionate AI Support
- **Emotion Recognition** – AI analyzes entries to offer tailored support  
- **Guided Prompts** – Personalized journaling suggestions based on your mood  
- **Breathing Exercises** – Interactive breathing guides for emotional regulation  
- **Music Recommendations** – Curated playlists matching your feelings  
- **Comforting Quotes** – Inspirational and uplifting messages  

### 📊 Analytics & Insights
- **Mood Dashboard** – Visualize emotional trends over time  
- **Journaling Streaks** – Track your writing consistency  
- **Progress Tracking** – Reflect on your personal growth journey  
- **Export Functionality** – Generate beautiful PDF exports of your journal  

### ✅ Todo Management
- **Task Organization** – Create, edit, and manage daily tasks  
- **Priority Levels** – Categorize tasks by urgency  
- **Due Dates** – Set reminders for upcoming or overdue tasks  
- **Category System** – Organize by work, personal, health, and more


## 🗂️ Database Schema

| Table Name     | Description                                      |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| **Users**       | Handles authentication and user management       |
| **Entries**     | Stores text and voice journal entries            |
| **Garden**      | Tracks mood garden state and user achievements   |
| **GardenFlower**| Monitors individual flower growth and status     |
| **Todo**        | Manages tasks, priorities, and deadlines         |

---

## 🎨 Customization

### 🎨 Themes & Styling
- **Built-in Themes:** Default, Nature, Abstract, Minimalist  
- **Custom Backgrounds:** Upload your own images  
- **Font Options:** Choose from multiple typefaces  
- **Color Customization:** Personalize text and background colors  

### 🌼 Garden Configuration
- **Mood-Flower Mapping:** Define which flowers represent specific moods  
- **Seasonal Themes:** Adjust color palettes for each season  
- **Achievements:** Add new badges and milestones  


---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python **3.8+**
- **PostgreSQL** (optional; SQLite fallback available)

### Installation

```bash
# 1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/serenote.git
cd serenote

# 2️⃣ Create and activate a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate        # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# 3️⃣ Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# 4️⃣ Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# 5️⃣ Initialize the database
python setup_db.py

# 6️⃣ Run the application
python run.py
